Hello, welcome everyone to this week's Stellar developer meeting. Today joining me are Francisco and Estan from Pzelabs. Pzelabs should be familiar to to any of of you who's been in the community for a while. They have been they have been building on Stellar for yeah way longer than I have. So welcome guys and yeah just please do quick introduction and and then we'll get started. Great. Thank you, Carson. My name is Estean. I am building patals since 2022 where we met all the stellar team back in Meridian Rome. Since then we have been building source undefined and in this presentation we will explain a bit more that Francisco.
Yeah, I'm I'm Francisco CPO Baltabs and we are excited to to present the the the hackathon and motivate everyone to build here. Yeah, as a quick yeah, a quick comment, we are with Francisco. We are currently at the Draper Draper University in San Francisco. So I will encourage all developers to to join all the programs like grants programs that stellar has because like the opportunities that you can get like we are getting now like currently I am in the dorms of the draper university the opportunities is they're they're really great. great. Yeah, Draperu is a program we started is a collaboration between Stellar and Draper University we started last year and continuing this year where like like you guys you stay for three weeks
go through a really intense program with a lots of different things everything from business to yeah the financial parts and it's a great program but that's not what we're talking about today. you are running you're running a hackathon with Stellar hacks and I think to lead up to that to talk about the hackathon the idea is that in the hackathon that the participants are building on on either source or on defendex or both. so maybe we start with an introduction what is source swap and what is defendex and what can you build on that? So yeah, please take us through the the basics of of of both products. Thank you, Caren. Please, Francisco, I will share the screen.
Great. So ster hacks with the ster hacks you can swap and build build vaults with palas source app and defendex. So let's talk a bit about source and then we will talk a bit about defendex. If you have questions I think you can write them in the chat right. So I will stop if anyone has any questions we will stop there and maybe we can share more our screens we can take a look at the codes etc. Source is a DEX and a DEX aggregator on the STA blockchain and as a brief introduction it was the first DEX built on Surban on the smart contract side of the stellar and we aggregates liquidity from multiple multiple liquidity sources or multiple multiple platforms. So on the right you
have like a swap that got gets loaded through Soros swap, Aqua and Clinics AMMs. In order for you to understand like the tech of Soros and so you can have like more ideas on how you can hack and build on top of source you need to understand that source has three components. components. it. There is the AMM then we have the aggregator that aggregates is a smart contract and then we have a road API. So our road API is the one that will that that will optimize your trade that will be executed on the regulator and if you get a trade that will go through source AMM it will go through our pools. Source of AMM is where you can create liquidity pools. If you want to do like a simple swap or if you are building a a
protocol that needs a liquidity pool, you can create a list liquidity pool on our AMM. It's a classic swap version two type of AMM. And we have a router contract that does everything for you. So you can create new pairs through the rotor contract. You can add liquidity through the router contract. remove liquidity and swap through only one contract. So you only need to understand this one router contract and we will put the links later but it's github.comsource core. So all the core smart contracts are in that core repository. now I am reading the comments sorry. Yeah hacks. Yeah let's go. Great. And then we have the aggregator. If you want to aggregate multiple protocols we
already built a contract that handles all those transactions. So you don't need to think about aqua. You don't need to think about Fenix or source. you need only need to inter interact with only one contract and then inside that aggregator contract we have all the adapters that will help your transaction go through all those different AMMs next slide please. So this is how it looks a transaction through the simple. So you just put token in, token out, the amount you want in, the minimum amount you want out, and but the tricky part is this dex distribution like how you distribute your trade between different exchanges, between different dexes. And this is how yeah, no next one.
So you will need to create this object but you don't need to calculate it yourself. We have it in our road API. yeah one one back sorry the yeah this one. this is how the transaction looks like on the ster on the ster explorer. so you put like how many parts you want of one trade to go through protocol zero which is Aquarius how much part you want to protocol two which is source up yeah yeah any questions until now no through this aggregator you can touch all those liquidity sources it's only one contract that your app or something that you are building needs to interact with it's only one contract and this contract will execute all transactions and will do all these subcontract calls necessary for
that trade to go through. So how do you get this optimal vector of dex distribution? You can calculate yourself or you can force it. So you want you can force it to go through like specific protocols. That's also that's also a possibility but if not you can use the API that we have and this is like the third part of this source app tech stack. we have a public API that anyone can use. We created an a APK key API key for for those that that are building on the hackathon. So you can experiment with our API and the easy thing the the the cool thing is that you just put what you want to trade, what are the protocols that you want to implement and then then returns you like what is the best way on
how you split the trade. So we have in the description of the hackathon there is a link to our postman collection. If you want to talk with the API you can go and check the postman collection because it will make it much easier for you how to interact with the API. API. And next one. Yeah, this is the all the documentation you need. We have also an SDK. I forgot to put it in this slide, but there is at source SDK. That's the npm package on TypeScript if you are building on TypeScript TypeScript. So you don't even need to build all those API calls. There a function for for for it. And we have on the telegram group we are sending reposit example repositories that of projects that use
our APIs. There is a question here Matias the distriution in this case will be the 60 3010 shown in the previous slide right yes so in a previous slide there was like this distribution of 60% 30% 10% and cor that's correct that the next distribution you say I want 10% to go through Phoenix and the path will be XLM direct to USDC Then you put 30% I want it to go through Aqua going from XLM to Aqua to USC because I think or you think or your program thinks that that's the best way to do it and 80% to do it or 60% to do it through Sora. Yeah. Great.
Yeah. And finally we in our back end for our API we use the source indexer and this project is completely open source. So if you plan to build something that requires information of the traits on source, if requires yeah if if if you need to build an indexer or if you need to improve the indexer that we have the link is on that slide but it's sorosab.com sorry github.com/sorosabsupql which is the the technology that we are using. We are using indexer with subql and of course if you're more interested talking the telegram there is the readmi has all the description on how you create this indexer and yeah you can build like maybe like a front end that shows the last transactions or
a bot that will send you a alert if there is like a difference of price so you can buy a token. something like that. Does the source of indexer relies on mercury? No, it doesn't. the source the the SUQL indexer it's its own technology. It's on TypeScript. there is like Docker. So you you you bring up like three different Docker containers. one which is like the worker which is doing calls to the RPC all the time to get the last test block and then it will ingest it to another container that will check that there if there is the event that you want to check and then it will ingest the information to to a local data database then later it's you can query it with graphql
So now the findex I'm I'm not going to see the the questions but so if the stean or cast can tell me if there is any question. Yeah cool you know let me know. Well, so the findex we want to make easy. So what is the findex? The findex removes the technical complexity for apps that want to offer savings accounts for their users. So you know that if if you're a wallet or an application end user application you may want to offer some sort of savings account and at the same times
you have defy protocols or real world assets that can provide you Jill to to make this this feature of savings accounts possible but this is difficult h you it's it's technical to it's too technical to integrate defy it's difficult to manage risk and difficult to monetize on top of that and it's time consuming consuming so we created the index to help with that so our plugand play software can make you earn when you uses earn and all with that with without the crypto complexity. So with the findex if you're a wallet
you use our plan and play software and you can offer yield to your users and and this is done by using defy strategies. So So you can use this device diverse device strategies to offer multiple options. you have automation on the smart contract side and you can always look for the best earnings without the need to for without the need of of the the user signatures for every every movement. So to understand the findex we need to understand two main concepts one is strategies and one is v. So for the strategies strategies is the smart contract that connects the defy the D5 protocol
is is the connection that we have with D5 protocols and also we can include there some automation that can benefit the users. And then we have the vaults. The vaults are the savings accounts. it handles all the fee distribution, all the accounting for users. It manage all the the how many users you have, which which user has the the amount of the funds that any user has etc. So let's see an example. So this is the blended strategy that we have right now. We have it for USDC euro C also. So we basically we lend USDC to blend on in a blend pool. We
harvest the blend rewards. We swap this blend rewards for more USDC and we lend again. So we get this autoco compounding effect on the blend blending and borrowing protocol. Then we on the b contract we can include multiple strategies. So we you can expose the users to multiple pools. In this case, we we have this USDC strategy on the blend fixed pool and on the blend gel blocks pool at the same time. So when a user deposits into the B contract, the funds are distributed automatically on both pools. also if you want to you can have like one 100% of the money in just one strategy. But
that could change in the future. So you can move all the fonts of your users to the the other strategy that is performing better. And that the the good thing is that the user don't need to know that their phones were moved. You just move it. but also you as a manager of the vault you you cannot take the the funds of the user out. then so this is what we have right now. So if someone wants to create a new strategy that could be more interesting like a leverage position strategy, strategy, you will need to implement the strategy trade. So this is how it looks like. So
you just need to put code inside that reflects the strategy you want to. so this the strategy you want to do with the find index with the index just need to comply with this function and if it complies with the function you can plug it to the index vault and that that strategy will be exposed for any any wallet that want to offer that kind of strategy. Then on the board, can I say a small comment on the strategy? strategy? Yeah. Yeah. So we we want to see more more strategies, more ideas that you can come maybe other more can be more risky maybe using other protocols.
, as Raso said, like the average strategies, you can short one asset, you can long like 9x with the current like if if you if you check with blend, you can lend borrow and then swap and borrow again. So you can think about those kind of things or even using other protocols protocols like sa like sa Yeah. So that would be like a very good idea of of a a hackathon project that that works with both protocols as well. Matias is asking for the harvest function what will data will be options this byes. Very good question. So because the strategy trait is general for any kind of protocols like say source swap blend
or normal or aqua fx dowo you don't know we don't know beforehand what what are the parameters that that harvest function will need probably you will need to submit some like some instructions on how the trade should be if there is a swap swap or not you know that's and Matias yeah so it it's an optional parameter that you may need for some logic then we have the b B contract role. So if you want to create a vault for a specific use case and for example combining multiple real
world assets and you may need to create these roles in order to create a vault. So the manager can do everything but taking the user fonts. So you can change who is the rebalance. You can change basically you can change the the other roles. Rebalance manager can only rebalance the receiver can only do fe related stuff and the emergency manager can rescue funds from the users. H so in order to create a vault you can use it you can do it in our front end then you need to invest or rebalance for the first time so the vault will know how to distribute the funds automatically then you implement it in your app in your front end and
start collecting fees. Yeah I I want to go want you to go back to the roles. Yeah, here here there is a challenge here. So if anybody wants to work on that, how to manage like co how to co-sign co-sign these messages. So maybe the manager can be like a smart contract with different co-signers, you know, or you can have you can use like the cosign u structure of a stellar maybe like created a front end that will help like manage defined exults. That's maybe something interesting. Some ideas. Yeah. Yeah. Multi multic. Thank you, Matias. Then if you want to do is do it this programmatically or include this in a front end, you just need to create this trigger this function on our factory.
yeah. And then this is the front end we have right now is just for creating bolts. bolts. So you just fill all the parameters here and you will have your vote and then then invest for the first time you can use stellar C cli with the same with this instructions and then we also have an API So So for the API we we have an API key also for the findings right that is public I mean we check this so you can go to api defindex defindex.io
docs to see the complete documentation on this. you can also go to docs.define docs.define defindex.io IO and you have like more extensive documentation and so yeah that's and and this is like an example of how to if you have already an API client you can use something like this. so for example if you are doing a front end to use the a vault contract erh erh you you can call the our our endpoints with the function deposit for example
you just set the amount from from who is going to be going to the deposit and we will return the sign transaction then you sign it and we can even send it for you. So if you want to implement the vault in a front end this could be very useful. Yeah we also have we also have we have deposit withdraw and we have the APY endpoints. So you don't need you don't need to build all those things. Yeah. So and we are here to help you. So please join the telegram group. We are going to be there answering as fast as we can and yeah we are here to help you.
Great. Thank you for for the introduction to Defendex and and to Soros Swap. I think it's it's it's great to see that some of the some of the other teams that you are you're at with the Draperu, they're already starting to to look into how they can integrate your your services and I think many more projects in the ecosystem could benefit from from integrating with you guys. Francisco, you are sharing your screen. I can remove it. Yeah, sure. Okay. I don't know if anybody has comments and questions. I think there was a question of Matias that was not answered., yeah. So, he asking so for the source of a aggregator, he says you don't need to specify the distribution.
So you don't have to hassle to do the paths. That's not completely right because the aggregator needs as an input the specific path the contract. So the contract that he cannot calculate what's the optimal path. However the API is is the one that will help you with that. And you can try with the our API on on public net. So if you want to like start testing in production, you can do it. And yeah, we we calculate the best path for you. But then the aggregator contract needs that information. And then yeah. Okay, great. Let's change tracks to the the hackathon. So right now we have
the the Stellar hacks. I'll just share a link for the hackathon. And this hackathon is actually about building on top of Defendex and and Soros. So maybe if one of you can talk a little bit about it. I can Are you sharing your screen? screen? yeah. Share this one. No, it's it's not this one. Okay. But show to show the the like to hacks web page. Yeah, let's here we go. Yeah. So, this is the second second hackathon we're doing with Stellar hacks. the first one was integrating blend. This one is focused on
building on on defendex and source swap. So, so yeah. tell me more about what what would you like to see? What is what what is what are people building? So for example here in defy defy integrations is is my screen is showing right? Yeah. so for example here we have a smart wallets a smart wallet using source and or the findex it will be great. So you can use our APIs the Pasi kit and build something with this an staking contract for SA LP tokens. so so that that would be great.
a re balancer bot this this is great. I don't know if you remember here but we have this role and this role rebalancer manager. So we can you can create a vault with where this rebalance manager can be the bot bot and and the bot can manage the portfolio for us. MCP servers that can I don't know I can tell him hey I want to create a vault and rebalance it that that could be very great something to doing something like that then for the the finex strategies. So ah so for most of these not for the
LPS stack staking but for the smart wallet rebalancer bot and MCP server you will probably need to use the APIs that we are providing. but then if you want to use create for example an strategy you can start from the the index protocol and modify the the contracts for sample where the index here. So this is the main repo. you can go to apps contracts strategy strategy and start coding there for more the index strategies and use all our the already existing variable. So you don't need to set up anything. you you wanted to say something.
Yeah. Yeah, I I am very excited about the strategies. I think this is like the Finex is already like very robust in the boats and we need more strategies. We need someone that will came with some new idea on how to manage funds. You know, we thought about blend and rebalancing, but you can think about something more interesting. So and and as as Francisco said is like there is a trade already for that like you don't need to and and that's a trade that will be will it be easy to plug it into into vaults and another comment I wanted to say about the rebalance is that our our vault contract when you are a rebalancing manager the vault doesn't give you any like
access to the funds at all. It only allows you to move from one strategy to the another strategy. So that's why you can feel confident of experimenting with a rebalancer bot. All right. I wanted to say that and about the LP tokens as Raph said in when we first talk about this I am also very excited about I want to see people using LP tokens. So we created source swap swap erh erh while like even while sorban was not on main yet and we created in a way that LP tokens were compatible with the classic tokens. So and we want to see more people using LP tokens. Maybe you can send an LP token. Maybe you can stake the LP token. Maybe you can create like a liquidity pool of two LP tokens. I don't know. Think about that. or maybe
a strategy can can need an LP token to have an exposure 50/50 I don't know to to different assets. Yeah. Great. So, there's still one week left of the hackathon and if you want to if you haven't already started building and and you think this could be a great fun challenge to do and a great way to to learn more about source swap and and defendex then this hackathon is a great opportunity. go to the link that I shared in the comments, the door hacks link, you can read more about the the the hackathon the submission requirements, the deadline and what to do and and these these great examples of what what what the pot team think could be fun to to see and would love to see being built. So So yeah, go check it out. It's it's a great fun
hackathon and as I said there's one week left so plenty of time to do something fun. fun. It's up to the 1st of August but yes until the 1 of August. Yeah. And and final comment we will be helping. If you have any question please ask them directly. ask the question directly because some maybe we don't have the best documentation. I don't know we are trying to do our best together with a lot of things we are trying to do. So please be patient if we don't if we don't have if you think you don't understand please ask because probably maybe we don't have that answer in the documentation and it's very good way to help us to improve our documentation. We built these APIs so you don't need to inter interact directly with contracts, but you don't need to do it if you really
had want to hack hard, you know. So, yeah, thank you Karen for for the opportunity and Raph and Boxy and all the team organizing this hackathon and Jerome. Jerome. Yeah, they they're really doing a great job with these mini hackathons. So, big shout out to them as well. I see Raph Raph shared a a link to the the Telegram group for the hackathon. So yeah, ask away if you have any questions. It's there's still time to build something something cool. So So please visit the hackathon page. Okay, great. Any any other questions before we we end this call? doesn't look like there's anymore. But thank you for joining. I know it's it's a crazy busy week for you. being at at Draperu is is a lot of fun, but it's also a lot of work. We we were pitching the Findex to Tim
Draper on Tuesday. Yeah, Tim Draper is is is a VC legend here in Silicon Valley. He was one of the first investors in many cool companies like like Tesla, SpaceX, and ton more companies. So being a being having the opportunity to pitch Tim Driver is is definitely an awesome opportunity. opportunity. Yeah. Yeah. Because we think that the millions of users will have their first Savings account through a wallet, not a traditional bank. Yeah. Great. Okay. Thank you everyone and you too guys. we'll be back here on Twitter next week. Thank you everyone for joining. Thank you. Bye bye. Bye. Good idea, Matias.